README.md, before:

# CircuitPython-HuskyLens
HuskyLens SEN0305 using CircuitPython

# HUSKYLENS CircuitPython Library
09 JUN 2023

Credit:
HuskyLens (Python):
https://github.com/HuskyLens/HUSKYLENSPython

RRoy from DFRobot community (MicroPython):
https://community.dfrobot.com/makelog-310469.html

### Quick Start - Required Libraries
> Place the [circuitPyHuskyLib.py](/circuitPyHuskyLib.py) file in your **CIRCUITPY/lib** folder.
> 
> You also need to include this library in your **CIRCUITPY/lib** folder. 
> You can download it from https://circuitpython.org/libraries
> - **adafruit_bus_device**

### Quick Start - Simple Example
> **UART**
> ```python
> import board
> from circuitPyHuskyLib import HuskyLensLibrary
> huskylens = HuskyLensLibrary("UART", TX=board.GP8, RX=board.GP9)
> 
> print(huskylens.knock())
> ```
 >
 > **I2C**
 >```python
 >import board
 >from circuitPyHuskyLib import HuskyLensLibrary
 >huskylens = HuskyLensLibrary("I2C", SCL=board.GP9, SDA=board.GP8)
>
>print(huskylens.knock())
 >```

# Functions
#### Function Format Information
> **function_name(arg1, arg2, ...)**
> 
> Description:
> : Description of the inputs of the function and its functionality
> 
> Arguments:
> : arg1: (Type) Description
> : arg2: (Type) Description
>
> Return:
> : Description of the return value of the function, NONE if the function does not return. 


## General Functions
#### HuskyLensLibrary(proto, TX=None, RX=None, SCL=None, SDA=None, baudrate=9600, address=0x32, verbose=True)
>
>**Description:**  
>Create instance of the HuskyLens class. 
>
> **Attributes:**
> - SHAPE: (`tuple`) Constant value representing the shape/resolution of the HuskyLens (320, 240). 
>
>**Arguments:**
> - proto: (`str`) The protocol to be used ("UART" or "I2C")
> - TX: (`Pin`) The TX pin for UART communication (optional if I2C is used)
> - RX: (`Pin`) The RX pin for UART communication (optional if I2C is used)
> - SCL: (`Pin`) The SDA pin for I2C communication (optional if UART is used)
> - SDA: (`Pin`) The SCL pin for I2C communication (optional if UART is used)
> - baudrate: (`int`) The baudrate for UART communication (default: 9600)
> - address: (`int`) The I2C address of the HuskyLens (default: 0x32)
> - verbose: (`bool`) Whether to print "object not found" message (default: True)
>
>**Return:**  
>`HuskyLens` object
      
#### knock()
> **Description:**  
> Send a simple knock to the HuskyLens to ensure that you are connected and is able to communicate.
> 
> **Return:**  
> Return "Knock Received" on success

#### frameNumber()
> **Description:**  
> Get the number of frame HuskyLens have processed.
>
> **Return:**  
> Frame count

#### count()
> **Description:**  
> Get the number of detected objects on the screen.
> 
> **Return:**  
> Number of objects on screen. 

#### learnedObjCount()
> **Description:**  
> Get the total number of learned objects for the current running algorithm. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Number of learned objects. 

## Data Functions
#### Data Format
- Data corresponds to either `block` information for all algorithms except *Line Tracking*, which instead will return `arrow` information. These directly reflect the blocks/arrows you see on the HuskyLens UI. 
> class Block:
> - x: (`int`) x coordinate of the center of the block.
> - y: (`int`) y coordinate of the center of the block.
> - x_topleft: (`int`) x coordinate of the top left corner of the block
> - y_topleft: (`int`) y coordinate of the top left corner of the block
> - width: (`int`) width of the block
> - height: (`int`) height of the block
> - ID: (`int`) object ID (if not learned, ID is 0)
> - learned: (`bool`) Is the object learned? (If object learned, learned is True)
> - type: (`str`) "BLOCK"
> 
> class Arrow:
> - xTail: (`int`) x coordinate of the tail of the arrow
> - yTail: (`int`) y coordinate of the tail of the arrow
> - xHead: (`int`) x coordinate of the head of the arrow
> - yHead: (`int`) x coordinate of the head of the arrow
> - ID: (`int`) object ID (if not learned, ID is 0)
> - learned: (`bool`) Is the object learned? (If object learned, learned is True)
> - type: (`str`) "ARROW"
> 
- Returned data will be in a list of either block or arrow information:  
Either `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]` or `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### requestAll()
> **Description:**  
> Request all block or arrow data from HuskyLens. This will return **block/arrow** data for **all learned and unlearned** objects that are visible on the screen. 
>
> **Return:**  
> Data array either `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]` or `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### blocks()
> **Description:**  
> Request all block data from HuskyLens. This will return **block** data for **all learned and unlearned** objects that are visible on the screen. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]`

#### arrows()
> **Description:**  
> Request all arrow data from HuskyLens. This will return **arrow** data for all **learned and unlearned** objects that are visible on the screen. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### learned()
> **Description:**  
> Request all block or arrow data from HuskyLens . This will return **block/arrow data** for all **learned** objects that are visible on the screen, unlearned objects are ignored.
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array either `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]` or `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### learnedBlocks()
> **Description:**  
> Request all block data from HuskyLens. This will return **block** data for all **learned** objects that are visible on the screen, unlearned objects are ignored. 
> 
> **Return:**
> Data array `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]`

#### learnedArrows()
> **Description:**  
> Request all arrow data from HuskyLens. This will return **arrow** data for all **learned** objects that are visible on the screen, unlearned objects are ignored. 
> 
> **Return:**
> Data array `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### getObjectByID(idVal)
> **Description:**  
> Request all **block or arrow** data from HuskyLens that have a designated **ID** and are visible on screen. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - idVal: (`int`) The desired ID of the object. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array either `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]` or `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### getBlocksByID(idVal)
> **Description:**  
> Request all **block** data from HuskyLens that have a designated **ID** and are visible on screen. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - idVal: (`int`) The desired ID of the object. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]`

#### getArrowsByID(idVal)
> **Description:**  
> Request all **arrow** data from HuskyLens that have a designated **ID** and are visible on screen. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - idVal: (`int`) The desired ID of the object. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

## Algorithm Control Functions
#### algorithm(alg)
> **Description:**  
> Switch HuskyLens to a specific algorithm. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - alg: (`str`) The desired algorithm to switch to. 
>  ```python
>  "ALGORITHM_OBJECT_TRACKING"
> "ALGORITHM_FACE_RECOGNITION"
> "ALGORITHM_OBJECT_RECOGNITION"
> "ALGORITHM_LINE_TRACKING"
> "ALGORITHM_COLOR_RECOGNITION"
> "ALGORITHM_TAG_RECOGNITION"
> "ALGORITHM_OBJECT_CLASSIFICATION"
>  ```   
> 
> **Return:**
> "Knock Received" on success

#### learn(id)
> **Description:**  
> Learn the current recognized object on screen with a chosen ID
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - id: (`int`) The desired ID of the object (1 - 1023 range). 
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success

#### forget()
> **Description:**  
> Forget learned objects for the current running algorithm. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success

## UI Related Functions
#### setCustomName(name, id)
> **Description:**  
> Set a custom name for a learned object with a specified ID. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - name: (`str`) value for the desired name.  
> - id: (`int`) the object ID you wish to change.  
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success

#### customText(name, x, y)
> **Description:**  
> - Place a string of text (less than 20 characters) on top of the HuskyLens UI. 
> - You can have at most 10 custom texts on the UI at once, and if you continue adding texts you will replace the previous texts in a circular fashion. 
> - Each text is uniquely identified by its (x, y) coordinate, so you can replace the text string at a (x, y) coordinate instead of adding a new text object. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - name: (`str`) value for the desired text.  
> - x: (`int`) x coordinate of the top left corner of the text 
> - y: (`int`) y coordinate of the top left corner of the text
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success

#### clearText()
> **Description:**  
> Clear and remove all custom UI texts from the screen. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success

## Utility Functions
#### saveModelToSDCard(idVal)
> **Description:**  
> Save the current algorithms model file (its learned object data) to the SD Card. The file will be in this format: *AlgorithmName_Backup_idVal.conf*
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - idVal: (`int`) file number to be used in the name for the file.
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success. If there is no SD Card inserted or SD Card error, there will be a UI popup on the HuskyLens. 

#### loadModelFromSDCard(idVal)
> **Description:**  
> Load a model file from the SD Card to the current algorithm and refresh the algorithm. The file will be in this format: *AlgorithmName_Backup_idVal.conf*
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - idVal: (`int`) file number to be used in the name for the file.
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success. If there is no SD Card inserted or SD Card error, there will be a UI popup on the HuskyLens. 

#### savePictureToSDCard()
> **Description:**  
> Save a photo from the HuskyLens camera onto the SD Card. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success. If there is no SD Card inserted or SD Card error, there will be a UI popup on the HuskyLens. 

#### saveScreenshotToSDCard()
> **Description:**  
> Save a screenshot of the HuskyLens UI onto the SD Card. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success. If there is no SD Card inserted or SD Card error, there will be a UI popup on the HuskyLens.

Commit message:

0.5.1b firmware update
2 major changes to this repo since the latest 0.5.1b huskylens firmware

1. Several methods no longer return "Knocked Received" upon successful completion. These return values have been updated to return blank. There is presently no logic present to confirm that the changes have been made as the husky lens returns a blank byte array. Rest assured, the methods still do indeed change algorithms, display text, etc, they simply have no return values.
2. I've updated the read.me to reflect these changes in return values.

README.md, after:

# CircuitPython-HuskyLens
HuskyLens SEN0305 using CircuitPython

# HUSKYLENS CircuitPython Library
09 JUN 2023

Credit:
HuskyLens (Python):
https://github.com/HuskyLens/HUSKYLENSPython

RRoy from DFRobot community (MicroPython):
https://community.dfrobot.com/makelog-310469.html

### Quick Start - Required Libraries
> Place the [circuitPyHuskyLib.py](/circuitPyHuskyLib.py) file in your **CIRCUITPY/lib** folder.
> 
> You also need to include this library in your **CIRCUITPY/lib** folder. 
> You can download it from https://circuitpython.org/libraries
> - **adafruit_bus_device**

### Quick Start - Simple Example
> **UART**
> ```python
> import board
> from circuitPyHuskyLib import HuskyLensLibrary
> huskylens = HuskyLensLibrary("UART", TX=board.GP8, RX=board.GP9)
> 
> print(huskylens.knock())
> ```
 >
 > **I2C**
 >```python
 >import board
 >from circuitPyHuskyLib import HuskyLensLibrary
 >huskylens = HuskyLensLibrary("I2C", SCL=board.GP9, SDA=board.GP8)
>
>print(huskylens.knock())
 >```

# Functions
#### Function Format Information
> **function_name(arg1, arg2, ...)**
> 
> Description:
> : Description of the inputs of the function and its functionality
> 
> Arguments:
> : arg1: (Type) Description
> : arg2: (Type) Description
>
> Return:
> : Description of the return value of the function, NONE if the function does not return. 


## General Functions
#### HuskyLensLibrary(proto, TX=None, RX=None, SCL=None, SDA=None, baudrate=9600, address=0x32, verbose=True)
>
>**Description:**  
>Create instance of the HuskyLens class. 
>
> **Attributes:**
> - SHAPE: (`tuple`) Constant value representing the shape/resolution of the HuskyLens (320, 240). 
>
>**Arguments:**
> - proto: (`str`) The protocol to be used ("UART" or "I2C")
> - TX: (`Pin`) The TX pin for UART communication (optional if I2C is used)
> - RX: (`Pin`) The RX pin for UART communication (optional if I2C is used)
> - SCL: (`Pin`) The SDA pin for I2C communication (optional if UART is used)
> - SDA: (`Pin`) The SCL pin for I2C communication (optional if UART is used)
> - baudrate: (`int`) The baudrate for UART communication (default: 9600)
> - address: (`int`) The I2C address of the HuskyLens (default: 0x32)
> - verbose: (`bool`) Whether to print "object not found" message (default: True)
>
>**Return:**  
>`HuskyLens` object
      
#### knock()
> **Description:**  
> Send a simple knock to the HuskyLens to ensure that you are connected and is able to communicate.
> 
> **Return:**  
> Return "Knock Received" on success

#### frameNumber()
> **Description:**  
> Get the number of frame HuskyLens have processed.
>
> **Return:**  
> Frame count

#### count()
> **Description:**  
> Get the number of detected objects on the screen.
> 
> **Return:**  
> Number of objects on screen. 

#### learnedObjCount()
> **Description:**  
> Get the total number of learned objects for the current running algorithm. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Number of learned objects. 

## Data Functions
#### Data Format
- Data corresponds to either `block` information for all algorithms except *Line Tracking*, which instead will return `arrow` information. These directly reflect the blocks/arrows you see on the HuskyLens UI. 
> class Block:
> - x: (`int`) x coordinate of the center of the block.
> - y: (`int`) y coordinate of the center of the block.
> - x_topleft: (`int`) x coordinate of the top left corner of the block
> - y_topleft: (`int`) y coordinate of the top left corner of the block
> - width: (`int`) width of the block
> - height: (`int`) height of the block
> - ID: (`int`) object ID (if not learned, ID is 0)
> - learned: (`bool`) Is the object learned? (If object learned, learned is True)
> - type: (`str`) "BLOCK"
> 
> class Arrow:
> - xTail: (`int`) x coordinate of the tail of the arrow
> - yTail: (`int`) y coordinate of the tail of the arrow
> - xHead: (`int`) x coordinate of the head of the arrow
> - yHead: (`int`) x coordinate of the head of the arrow
> - ID: (`int`) object ID (if not learned, ID is 0)
> - learned: (`bool`) Is the object learned? (If object learned, learned is True)
> - type: (`str`) "ARROW"
> 
- Returned data will be in a list of either block or arrow information:  
Either `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]` or `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### requestAll()
> **Description:**  
> Request all block or arrow data from HuskyLens. This will return **block/arrow** data for **all learned and unlearned** objects that are visible on the screen. 
>
> **Return:**  
> Data array either `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]` or `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### blocks()
> **Description:**  
> Request all block data from HuskyLens. This will return **block** data for **all learned and unlearned** objects that are visible on the screen. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]`

#### arrows()
> **Description:**  
> Request all arrow data from HuskyLens. This will return **arrow** data for all **learned and unlearned** objects that are visible on the screen. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### learned()
> **Description:**  
> Request all block or arrow data from HuskyLens . This will return **block/arrow data** for all **learned** objects that are visible on the screen, unlearned objects are ignored.
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array either `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]` or `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### learnedBlocks()
> **Description:**  
> Request all block data from HuskyLens. This will return **block** data for all **learned** objects that are visible on the screen, unlearned objects are ignored. 
> 
> **Return:**
> Data array `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]`

#### learnedArrows()
> **Description:**  
> Request all arrow data from HuskyLens. This will return **arrow** data for all **learned** objects that are visible on the screen, unlearned objects are ignored. 
> 
> **Return:**
> Data array `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### getObjectByID(idVal)
> **Description:**  
> Request all **block or arrow** data from HuskyLens that have a designated **ID** and are visible on screen. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - idVal: (`int`) The desired ID of the object. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array either `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]` or `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

#### getBlocksByID(idVal)
> **Description:**  
> Request all **block** data from HuskyLens that have a designated **ID** and are visible on screen. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - idVal: (`int`) The desired ID of the object. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array `[block1, block2, ..., blockN]`

#### getArrowsByID(idVal)
> **Description:**  
> Request all **arrow** data from HuskyLens that have a designated **ID** and are visible on screen. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - idVal: (`int`) The desired ID of the object. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> Data array `[arrow1, arrow2, ..., arrowN]`

## Algorithm Control Functions
#### algorithm(alg)
> **Description:**  
> Switch HuskyLens to a specific algorithm. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - alg: (`str`) The desired algorithm to switch to. 
>  ```python
>  "ALGORITHM_OBJECT_TRACKING"
> "ALGORITHM_FACE_RECOGNITION"
> "ALGORITHM_OBJECT_RECOGNITION"
> "ALGORITHM_LINE_TRACKING"
> "ALGORITHM_COLOR_RECOGNITION"
> "ALGORITHM_TAG_RECOGNITION"
> "ALGORITHM_OBJECT_CLASSIFICATION"
>  ```   
> 
> As of firmware 0.5.1b, no return value is sent. 

#### learn(id)
> **Description:**  
> Learn the current recognized object on screen with a chosen ID
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - id: (`int`) The desired ID of the object (1 - 1023 range). 
> 
> As of firmware 0.5.1b, no return value is sent.

#### forget()
> **Description:**  
> Forget learned objects for the current running algorithm. 
> 
> As of firmware 0.5.1b, no return value is sent.

## UI Related Functions
#### setCustomName(name, id)
> **Description:**  
> Set a custom name for a learned object with a specified ID. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - name: (`str`) value for the desired name.  
> - id: (`int`) the object ID you wish to change.  
> 
> As of firmware 0.5.1b, no return value is sent.

#### customText(name, x, y)
> **Description:**  
> - Place a string of text (less than 20 characters) on top of the HuskyLens UI. 
> - You can have at most 10 custom texts on the UI at once, and if you continue adding texts you will replace the previous texts in a circular fashion. 
> - Each text is uniquely identified by its (x, y) coordinate, so you can replace the text string at a (x, y) coordinate instead of adding a new text object. 
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - name: (`str`) value for the desired text.  
> - x: (`int`) x coordinate of the top left corner of the text 
> - y: (`int`) y coordinate of the top left corner of the text
> 
> As of firmware 0.5.1b, no return value is sent.

#### clearText()
> **Description:**  
> Clear and remove all custom UI texts from the screen. 
> 
> As of firmware 0.5.1b, no return value is sent.

## Utility Functions
#### saveModelToSDCard(idVal)
> **Description:**  
> Save the current algorithms model file (its learned object data) to the SD Card. The file will be in this format: *AlgorithmName_Backup_idVal.conf*
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - idVal: (`int`) file number to be used in the name for the file.
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success. If there is no SD Card inserted or SD Card error, there will be a UI popup on the HuskyLens. 

#### loadModelFromSDCard(idVal)
> **Description:**  
> Load a model file from the SD Card to the current algorithm and refresh the algorithm. The file will be in this format: *AlgorithmName_Backup_idVal.conf*
> 
> **Arguments:**
> - idVal: (`int`) file number to be used in the name for the file.
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success. If there is no SD Card inserted or SD Card error, there will be a UI popup on the HuskyLens. 

#### savePictureToSDCard()
> **Description:**  
> Save a photo from the HuskyLens camera onto the SD Card. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success. If there is no SD Card inserted or SD Card error, there will be a UI popup on the HuskyLens. 

#### saveScreenshotToSDCard()
> **Description:**  
> Save a screenshot of the HuskyLens UI onto the SD Card. 
> 
> **Return:**  
> "Knock Received" on success. If there is no SD Card inserted or SD Card error, there will be a UI popup on the HuskyLens.
